# OWASP Top 10 (2021)

*Also in: Cyber Security 101 - section 8, room 5; Security Engineer - section 4, room 1; PenTest+ - section 4, room 2*

## [Task 1] Introduction

## [Task 2] Accessing Machines

## [Task 3] 1. Broken Access Control

## [Task 4] 1. Broken Access Control (IDOR Challenge)

**[Task 4, Question 1] Look at other users' notes. What is the flag?** - `flag{fivefourthree}`

## [Task 5] 2. Cryptographic Failures

## [Task 6] 2. Cryptographic Failures (Supporting Material 1)

## [Task 7] 2. Cryptographic Failures (Supporting Material 2)

## [Task 8] 2. Cryptographic Failures (Challenge)

**[Task 8, Question 1] HAve a look around the web app. The developer has left themselves a note indicating that there is sensitive data in a specific directory. WHat is the name of the mentioned directory?** - `/assets`

**[Task 8, Question 2] Navigate to the directory you found in question one. What file stands out as being likely to contain sensitive data?** - `webapp.db`

**[Task 8, Question 3] Use the supporting material to access the sensitive data. What is the password hash of the admin user?** - `6eea9b7ef19179a06954edd0f6c05ceb`

**[Task 8, Question 4] Crack the hash. What is the admin's plaintext password?** - `qwertyuiop`

**[Task 8, Question 5] Log in as the admin. What is the flag?** - `THM{Yzc2YjdkMjE5N2VjMzNhOTE3NjdiMjdl}`

## [Task 9] 3. Injection

## [Task 10] 3.1 Command Injection

**[Task 10, Question 1] What strange text file is in the website's root directory?** - `drpepper.txt`

**[Task 10, Question 2] How many non-root/non-service/non-daemon users are there?** - 0

**[Task 10, Question 3] What user is this app running as?** - `apache`

**[Task 10, Question 4] WHat is the user's shell set as?** - `/sbin/nologin`

**[Task 10, Question 5] What version of Alpine Linux is running?** - 3.16.0

## [Task 11] 4. Insecure Design

**[Task 11, Question 1] What is the value of the flag in `joseph`'s account?** - `THM{Not_3ven_c4tz_c0uld_sav3_U!}`

## [Task 12] 5. Security Misconfiguration

**[Task 12, Question 1] Use the Werkzeug console to run the following Python code to execute the `ls -l` command on the server: `import os; print(os.popen("ls -l").read())`. What is the database file name (the one with the `.db` extension) in the current directory?** - `todo.db`

**[Task 12, Question 2] Modify the code to read the contnts of the `app.py` file, which contains the application's source code. What is the value of the `secret_flag` variable in the source code?** - `THM{Just_a_tiny_misconfiguration}`

## [Task 13] 6. Vulnerable and Outdated Compoents

## [Task 14] 6. Vulnerable and Outdated Components - Exploit

## [Task 15] 6. Vulnerable and Outdated Components - Lab

**[Task 15, Question 1] What is the content of the `/opt/flag.txt` file?** - `THM{But_1ts_n0t_my_f4ult!}`

## [Task 16] 7. Identification and Authentication Failures

## [Task 17] 7. Identification and Authentication Failures Practical

**[Task 17, Question 1] What is the flag that you found in `darren`'s account?** - `fe86079416a21a3c99937fea8874b667`

**[Task 17, Question 2] What is the flag that you found in `arthur`'s account?** - `d9ac0f7db4fda460ac3edeb75d75e16e`

## [Task 18] 8. Software and Data Integrity Failures

## [Task 19] 8. Software Integrity Failures

**[Task 19, Question 1] What is the SHA-256 hash of `https://code.jquery.com/jquery-1.12.4.min.js`?** - `sha256-ZosEbRLbNQzLpnKIkEdrPv7lOy9C27hHQ+Xp8a4MxAQ=`

## [Task 20] 8. Data Integrity Failures

**[Task 20, Question 1] Try logging into the application as `guest`. What is `guest`'s account password?** - `guest`

**[Task 20, Question 2] What is the name of the website's cookie containing a JWT token?** - `jwt-session`

**[Task 20, Question 3] What is the flag presented to the `admin` user?** - `THM{Dont_take_cookies_from_strangers}`

## [Task 21] 9. Security Logging and Monitoring Failures

**[Task 21, Question 1] What IP address is the attacker using?** - `49.99.13.16`

**[Task 21, Question 2] What kind of attack is being carried out?** - Brute Force

## [Task 22] 10. Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF)

**[Task 22, Question 1] Explore the website. What is the only host allowed to access the admin area?** - `localhost`

**[Task 22, Question 2] Check the "Download Resume button. Where does the server parameter point to?** - `secure-file-storage.com`

**[Task 22, Question 3] Using SSRF, make the application send the request to your AttackBox instead of the secure file storage. Are there any API keys in the intercepted request?** - `THM{Hello_Im_just_an_API_key}`

## [Task 23] What Next?
